Add cluster awareness and decommission docs (#2438)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/cluster-decommission.md

---
layout: default
title: Cluster decommission 
nav_order: 20
---

# Cluster decommission

> The cluster decommission operation adds support for zonal cluster deployments based on awareness. When a particular zone overloads with traffic, you can decommission the zone to ensure uptime during large search requests. This greatly benefits use cases with multi-zone deployment, since rolling restarts per node can take more time than decommissioning a zone. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster decommission operation adds support for decommissioning an entire awareness attribute(say zone). This greatly benefits use cases with multi-zone deployment, where zonal deployments can apply new upgrades in a controlled fashion. The cluster decommission also comes in handy when a particular zone's health becomes degraded during a zonal outage, in which case users can decommission that zone to prevent replication requests from getting stalled and request backlogs from building up. 
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: change "comes in handy" to something like "is especially useful" or "can be very useful".

Reviewer 3: say zone --> that is, zone?

---
layout: default
title: Cluster decommission 
nav_order: 20
---

# Cluster decommission

> The cluster decommission operation adds support decommissioning based on awareness. It greatly benefits uses with multi-zone deployments, where awareness attributes, such as `zones`, can aid in applying new upgrades to a cluster in controlled fashion. This is especially useful during outages, in which case, you can decommission that unhealthy zone to prevent replication requests from getting stalled and prevent your request backlog from becoming to large.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The cluster decommission operation adds support decommissioning based on awareness. It greatly benefits multi-zone deployments, where awareness attributes, such as `zones`, can aid in applying new upgrades to a cluster in a controlled fashion. This is especially useful during outages, in which case, you can decommission the unhealthy zone to prevent replication requests from stalling and prevent your request backlog from becoming too large.
```

Reviewer 4: "support for decommissioning"?

> For more information on allocation awareness, see [Shard allocation awareness]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}//opensearch/cluster/#shard-allocation-awareness)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information about allocation awareness, see [Shard allocation awareness]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}//opensearch/cluster/#shard-allocation-awareness).
```

> ## Path and HTTP methods

Reviewer 4: This is "HTTP and path methods" above. Please align with template in both instances.

```
PUT  /_cluster/decommission/awareness/{awareness_attribute_name}/{awareness_attribute_value}
GET  /_cluster/decommission/awareness/{awareness_attribute_name}/_status
DELETE /_cluster/decommission/awareness
```

## URL parameters

Parameter | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
awareness_attribute_name | String | The name of awareness attribute, usually `zone`.
awareness_attribute_value | String | The value of the awareness attribute. For example, if you have shards allocated in two different zones, you can give each zone a value of `zone-a` or `zoneb`. The cluster decommission operation decommissions the zone listed in the method.

> ## Example: Decommission and recommission a zone

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Example: Decommissioning and recommissioning a zone
```

> You can use the following sample requests to decommission and recommission a zone:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use the following example requests to decommission and recommission a zone:
```

### Request

> The following sample request decommissions `zone-a`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example request decommissions `zone-a`:
```

```
PUT /_cluster/decommission/awareness/<zone>/<zone-a>
```

> If you want to recommission a decommissioned zone, you can use the `DELETE` method.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to recommission a decommissioned zone, you can use the `DELETE` method:
```

```
DELETE /_cluster/decommission/awareness
```

### Response

```json
{
      "acknowledged": true
}
```

> ## Example: Get zone decommission status

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Example: Getting zone decommission status
```

> The following sample requests returns the decommission status of all zones.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example request returns the decommission status of all zones.
```

For more information on allocation awareness, see [Shard allocation awareness]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}//opensearch/cluster/#shard-allocation-awareness)

## Path and HTTP methods

```
PUT  /_cluster/decommission/awareness/{awareness_attribute_name}/{awareness_attribute_value}
GET  /_cluster/decommission/awareness/{awareness_attribute_name}/_status
DELETE /_cluster/decommission/awareness
```

## URL parameters

Parameter | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
awareness_attribute_name | String | The name of awareness attribute, usually `zone`.
awareness_attribute_value | String | The value of the awareness attribute. For example, if you have shards allocated in two different zones, you can give each zone a value of `zone-a` or `zoneb`. The cluster decommission operation decommissions the zone listed in the method.

## Example: Decommission and recommission a zone

> You can use the following sample requests to decommission and recommission a zone:

Reviewer 3: sample --> example

### Request

The following sample request decommissions `zone-a`:

```
PUT /_cluster/decommission/awareness/<zone>/<zone-a>
```

If you want to recommission a decommissioned zone, you can use the `DELETE` method.

```
DELETE /_cluster/decommission/awareness
```

### Response

> When recommissioning or decommissioning a zone, OpenSearch responds with the following:

Reviewer 2: "...with the following" - response? JSON parameter?
